



dnssd                                                          F. Michel
Internet-Draft                                                     Apple
Intended status: Standards Track                                 E. Dijk
Expires: 23 April 2026                                 IoTconsultancy.nl
                                                         20 October 2025


                 SRP Remove All Services EDNS(0) option
                   draft-michel-srp-remove-all-latest

Abstract

   This document describes a new EDNS(0) option for an SRP Update to
   remove all previously registered services for a hostname before
   adding new services for that same hostname.  This allows an SRP
   requester to replace all its previous service registrations with new
   ones using a single SRP Update.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Spatial Reuse Protocol
   Working Group mailing list (), which is archived at .

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/francoismichel/draft-michel-srp-remove-all-option.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 23 April 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  The SRP Remove All Services EDNS(0) option
   4.  Server-side processing of the SRP Remove All Services Option
     4.1.  Error cases
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  IANA Considerations
   7.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Some constrained devices may not afford storing the services, that
   they have currently registered to an SRP [SRP] registrar, in
   persistent memory.  Instead, they only store their hostname and their
   SRP public/private key pair.  Upon a reboot, they ensure no stale
   service registrations remain on the SRP registrar by first sending an
   SRP Update to remove all their previously registered services per
   Section 3.2.5.5.1 of [SRP].  Once that is done, they register their
   current services through another SRP Update.  Since removing all
   services requires the lease time in the Update Lease option to be
   zero, and adding any service(s) requires the same option to have a
   nonzero lease value, SRP effectively prevents the removal of all
   previous services and registering new services for a same hostname in
   the same Update (Section 3.2.5.5.1 of [SRP]).  Therefore, this has to
   be done using two separate, successive SRP Updates.

   This document defines a new EDNS(0) [EDNS0] option called SRP Remove
   All Services allowing to include the previous services removal
   operation in the same SRP Update that registers the new services.
   The option also allows an SRP requester to send a single SRP Update
   that removes all its registered services, while keeping its hostname
   registered, which is not possible currently with [SRP].  This
   significantly reduces the amount of data transmitted over the network
   for doing these operations and reduces the risk of congestion caused
   by the operation of SRP in constrained networks.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  The SRP Remove All Services EDNS(0) option

   The SRP Remove All Services Option has a length of zero and therefore
   has no payload.  Its presence in an SRP Update for a particular
   hostname (as defined in the Host Description Instruction) signals to
   the registrar to first remove all published services for that
   hostname before processing the Service Discovery Instructions and
   Service Description Instructions contained in the Update.  It is
   almost equivalent to first sending an SRP Update as defined by
   Section 3.2.5.5.1 of [SRP] before sending this Update.  The only
   difference is that when the SRP Remove All Services Option is used,
   the "Removing All Published Services" operation and the subsequent
   SRP Update are considered as a single atomic transaction that either
   entirely succeeds, or fails.

4.  Server-side processing of the SRP Remove All Services Option

   An SRP registrar receiving a valid SRP Update containing the SRP
   Remove All Services Option first removes all service registrations
   for the hostname in the Host Description Instruction.  This includes
   all SRV/TXT records for all service instance names of which the SRV
   record has this hostname as a target.  It also includes all PTR
   records that point to these service instance names.  Then, it
   processes the remaining instructions of the SRP Update as defined by
   [SRP].  In response to an Update containing the SRP Remove All
   Services Option, the SRP registrar MUST include the option in its SRP
   Update response to indicate that it is supported.  This is done
   regardless of whether any of the additional operations induced by the
   option, or the instructions contained in the SRP Update, succeed or
   fail.

4.1.  Error cases

   If the "Delete All RRsets From A Name" operations induced by the SRP
   Remove All Services Option results in an error on the SRP registrar,
   it SHOULD immediately stop processing the SRP Update and MUST return
   the adequate response code as it would have done when processing a
   regular "Delete All RRsets From A Name".

   If all the "Delete All RRsets From A Name" operations implied by the
   option succeed, but the subsequent SRP Update processing fails, then
   all the implied "Delete All RRsets From A Name" operations are undone
   and the adequate error response code for the SRP Update failure is
   returned as defined by [SRP].

5.  Security Considerations

   The SRP Remove All Services Option relies on existing security
   mechanisms defined in [SRP].  The SRP requester MUST be properly
   authenticated for the hostname contained in the Host Description
   Instruction before the SRP registrar processes the "Delete All RRsets
   From A Name" operations induced by the option.

   Since an SRP attacker can replay any SRP Update, it can also replay
   the "Delete All RRsets From A Name" operations induced by the option.

6.  IANA Considerations

   IANA is requested to allocate a new OPT RR option code from the DNS
   EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT) registry for the 'SRP Remove All Services'
   Option.  The Name shall be 'SRP-RAS'.  The value shall be allocated
   by IANA.  The meaning shall be 'SRP Remove All Services'.  Reference
   shall refer to this document, once published.  IANA shall determine
   the registration date.

7.  Normative References

   [EDNS0]    Damas, J., Graff, M., and P. Vixie, "Extension Mechanisms
              for DNS (EDNS(0))", STD 75, RFC 6891,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6891, April 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6891>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [SRP]      Lemon, T. and S. Cheshire, "Service Registration Protocol
              for DNS-Based Service Discovery", RFC 9665,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9665, June 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9665>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   François Michel
   Apple
   Email: f_michel@apple.com


   Esko Dijk
   IoTconsultancy.nl
   Email: esko.dijk@iotconsultancy.nl
